all right let's bring in luchano zakara
now he's associate professor of golf
politics at car University thanks very
much for joining us on set let's start
on the actual picture inside G we've had
these terrible anecdotal reports of
children going hungry asking their
parents for food that just isn't there
now we have this report from the world
food program warning that more people
could die from the after effects of this
war than being killed in the Israeli
strikes it's it's a very serious
situation we're looking at isn't it yeah
it's a situation that they cannot be
anymore I mean they cannot be denied
even though numbers have been always
controversial and some people United
States Israel were not believing on
those data because supposedly it's
coming from from Hamas nobody can deny
that the picture is already catastrophic
that the the the the the the famine
people starving is there that the
hospitals are not working anymore that
there's no way even to gather data about
how many people died actually and how
many children died and how is the
situation uh with the restricted uh Aid
coming to to Gaza nothing can be uh
hided anymore and therefore this report
is supporting now the evolution of of
some decisions that they are taking at
the international level well yeah and at
that level at the UN Security Council
we've seen a whole week of desperate
negotiations trying to get the US
finally to support a security Council
resolution but it seems that the
language has changed so much that it's
alienated as Gabriel was reporting other
members of the security Council
apparently that the key issue is who has
final say over exactly what goes in to
Gaza initially under the wording it was
going to be un agencies the US was
concerned that that would take too much
control away from Israel which says it
wants to make sure that nothing that
goes in directly AIDS Hamas um a is this
version do you think going to get
through and if it does what kind of
impact can it bring to bear on the
ground well I mean one thing is to to
have to bury money is at at least for
the first time United States able to
sign something which is a drastic change
compared with the the previous situation
the last two months that they have been
denying systematically anything even
though uh a couple of weeks ago guz
called for this article 99 so there's a
slight change in US perception and US
actions uh that is also helping Israel
to to to change a little bit the the
tone because Israel realized that now
they cannot count 100% on the support in
anything they do in everything they do
so they need to change something that's
why we also can see that Israel is also
now renegotiating or restarting
negotiations to to to to at least to
liberate the other 35 hostages the
situation is changing slightly because
the public opinion worldwide is changing
against Israel is increasingly uh
pushing Biden to change its action ER
even the media mainstream media in the
US is reporting in a different way the
conflict uh thrusting much more on the
data that's coming from inside Gaza so
the picture changed a little bit that is
forcing uh Biden to change his position
of course the resolution is not the same
that what it was supposed to be one
month ago but at least is changing
something that is setting a precedent
inside the security Council that the
United States for the first time is
supporting a resolution that this
addressing or asking something
specifically to Israel whether Israel
will abide for that is another issue but
at least there is a legal present that
this is happening for the first time
yeah well I mean on the issue of of the
Israeli position we heard again from the
president isak Herzog who was from a
different part of Israeli politics from
the Prime Minister Benjamin nety much
more mainstream and yet he talking to a
senior French politician was really
laying the blame at the un's door saying
that these agencies should stop
complaining and that they could enter
three times the amount that they'd been
entering into Gaza if they just got on
with it they're saying well hang on a
minute there is so much bombing coming
from the air that it's not safe I mean
what do you make of the Israeli and un
positions actually there on the southern
border well actually this is a battle of
narratives and the Battle of wordss
who's blaming I mean the game of blame
who's blaming why this is not happening
uh Israel keeps repeating that they are
concerned about killing civilians and
they are concerned about allowing uh uh
Aid to enter into gasa I mean the
international agencies and other
governments are blaming Israel for
controlling the gate the the truth that
actually Israel is controlling the gate
there is no other way to enter Gaza
without the the control is of Israel
whether this United nationes resolution
security counc resolution will take that
control from Israel I don't think so I
mean isra will never allow that to
happen neither United States would allow
this to happen but I think that there
should be more uh uh diplomatic efforts
conducted by both un and Israel to
guarantee that the the the the center in
Gaza is not helping or is not um harming
Israel in a way that Israel would
withdraw from this uh this support of
this uh resolution otherwise we will
come back to to zero again indeed all
right thank you very much Lan zakara
appreciate it